2020.1:
 * Version 2.1 (Rev. 13)
 * General: Added flip-flops to interrupt outputs to avoid clock domain crossing issues for connections to different domains

2019.2.2:
 * Version 2.1 (Rev. 12)
 * No changes

2019.2.1:
 * Version 2.1 (Rev. 12)
 * No changes

2019.2:
 * Version 2.1 (Rev. 12)
 * Bug Fix: Ensure that register names follow IP-XACT standard

2019.1.3:
 * Version 2.1 (Rev. 11)
 * No changes

2019.1.2:
 * Version 2.1 (Rev. 11)
 * No changes

2019.1.1:
 * Version 2.1 (Rev. 11)
 * No changes

2019.1:
 * Version 2.1 (Rev. 11)
 * No changes

2018.3.1:
 * Version 2.1 (Rev. 11)
 * No changes

2018.3:
 * Version 2.1 (Rev. 11)
 * General: Avoid constraint warnings during OOC synthesis

2018.2:
 * Version 2.1 (Rev. 10)
 * General: Updated HDL to avoid lint error. No functional change.

2018.1:
 * Version 2.1 (Rev. 9)
 * Feature Enhancement: Added support for implementing FIFO with Ultra RAM

2017.4:
 * Version 2.1 (Rev. 8)
 * No changes

2017.3:
 * Version 2.1 (Rev. 8)
 * Feature Enhancement: Added FIFO reset functionality
 * Other: Use synchronous reset for asynchronous FIFO

2017.2:
 * Version 2.1 (Rev. 7)
 * No changes

2017.1:
 * Version 2.1 (Rev. 7)
 * No changes

2016.4:
 * Version 2.1 (Rev. 7)
 * No changes

2016.3:
 * Version 2.1 (Rev. 7)
 * General: Source HDL files are concatenated into a single file to speed up synthesis and simulation. No changes required by the user

2016.2:
 * Version 2.1 (Rev. 6)
 * Provided register information for all registers, including description and bit field definitions
 * Revision change in one or more subcores

2016.1:
 * Version 2.1 (Rev. 5)
 * No changes

2015.4.2:
 * Version 2.1 (Rev. 5)
 * No changes

2015.4.1:
 * Version 2.1 (Rev. 5)
 * No changes

2015.4:
 * Version 2.1 (Rev. 5)
 * No changes

2015.3:
 * Version 2.1 (Rev. 5)
 * Supported devices and production status are now determined automatically, to simplify support for future devices
 * IP revision number added to HDL module, library, and include file names, to support designs with both locked and upgraded IP instances
 * Revision change in one or more subcores

2015.2.1:
 * Version 2.1 (Rev. 4)
 * No changes

2015.2:
 * Version 2.1 (Rev. 4)
 * Corrected help text in customization dialog

2015.1:
 * Version 2.1 (Rev. 3)
 * Added support for additional Ultrascale devices
 * Enabled out-of-context clock frequency setting

2014.4.1:
 * Version 2.1 (Rev. 2)
 * No changes

2014.4:
 * Version 2.1 (Rev. 2)
 * No changes

2014.3:
 * Version 2.1 (Rev. 2)
 * Updated subcore references, no functional changes
 * Made period constraints applicable when not using BRAMs to implement FIFO, corrected reset constraints, and added automation

2014.2:
 * Version 2.1 (Rev. 1)
 * Removed revision control tags from source code comments, no functional changes

2014.1:
 * Version 2.1
 * Changed internal address automation, no functional changes
 * Added parameter for number of synchronization flip-flops in asynchronous configuration
 * Internal device family name change, no functional changes

2013.4:
 * Version 2.0 (Rev. 2)
 * No changes

2013.3:
 * Version 2.0 (Rev. 2)
 * Support for Automotive Artix-7, Automotive Zynq, Defense Grade Artix-7, and Defense Grade Zynq devices at Production status

2013.2:
 * Version 2.0 (Rev. 1)
 * Repackaged to improve internal automation, no functional changes

2013.1:
 * Version 2.0
 * Vivado-only core, with no functional changes from version 1.01.b
 * There have been no functional or interface changes to this IP.  The version number has changed to support unique versioning in Vivado starting with 2013.1.

2012.4:
 * Version 1.01.b
 * Fixed issue with sync FIFO BRAMs which could duplicate read data

2012.3:
 * Version 1.01.a
 * Native Vivado release
 * Use AXI interconnect as default for new instances from 7 series target architectures

(c) Copyright 2010 - 2020 Xilinx, Inc. All rights reserved.

This file contains confidential and proprietary information
of Xilinx, Inc. and is protected under U.S. and
international copyright and other intellectual property
laws.

DISCLAIMER
This disclaimer is not a license and does not grant any
rights to the materials distributed herewith. Except as
otherwise provided in a valid license issued to you by
Xilinx, and to the maximum extent permitted by applicable
law: (1) THESE MATERIALS ARE MADE AVAILABLE "AS IS" AND
WITH ALL FAULTS, AND XILINX HEREBY DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
AND CONDITIONS, EXPRESS, IMPLIED, OR STATUTORY, INCLUDING
BUT NOT LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, NON-
INFRINGEMENT, OR FITNESS FOR ANY PARTICULAR PURPOSE; and
(2) Xilinx shall not be liable (whether in contract or tort,
including negligence, or under any other theory of
liability) for any loss or damage of any kind or nature
related to, arising under or in connection with these
materials, including for any direct, or any indirect,
special, incidental, or consequential loss or damage
(including loss of data, profits, goodwill, or any type of
loss or damage suffered as a result of any action brought
by a third party) even if such damage or loss was
reasonably foreseeable or Xilinx had been advised of the
possibility of the same.

CRITICAL APPLICATIONS
Xilinx products are not designed or intended to be fail-
safe, or for use in any application requiring fail-safe
performance, such as life-support or safety devices or
systems, Class III medical devices, nuclear facilities,
applications related to the deployment of airbags, or any
other applications that could lead to death, personal
injury, or severe property or environmental damage
(individually and collectively, "Critical
Applications"). Customer assumes the sole risk and
liability of any use of Xilinx products in Critical
Applications, subject only to applicable laws and
regulations governing limitations on product liability.

THIS COPYRIGHT NOTICE AND DISCLAIMER MUST BE RETAINED AS
PART OF THIS FILE AT ALL TIMES.
